So in this section we're going to keep going and discuss the different layers that we were covered earlier.
Again a quick overview of what we've covered so far.
So again here we have our neural network.
We have our target classes and we have 10 outputs.
Here we have our images and here we perform the convolution process.
Again I think you guys are experts by now when it comes to convolutions and I come to how can we apply
a feature detector to come up with our feature maps.
OK.
Next step is we wanted to do what we call it real new activation function OK or add a new function or
local rectified linear units rectify lenience.
OK.
So really layers they simply add what we call it nonlinearity in our feature map and what it does it
basically enhances the sparsity of how scattered the feature we can be.
OK so what do you mean by this.
So again let's clarify.
Where did the location first of the really really basically are that the five linear units function
and actually applied right after the feature detection process.
OK.
After applying the convolution before the pulling.
So let's take a look at how can we apply the rule you can see here.
This is kind of an image.
OK.
And let's assume that we can kind of apply our rectify a unit or a new function on it.
I just can see any values if it's seven.
OK if it's let's say the line here is kind of 45 degrees we get up like it's real estate 7.
If it's standing in a state then however it's minus five that's been negative.
We're just going to shut it down.
It's going to set it to zero.
OK so any number that's negative as you can see it has been set to zero G minus 8 becomes zero and so
on and so forth.
OK that's how can you apply what we call the really what's the what's the essence what's the advantage
of having something like this.
So what we have done in a way is that we try to make the image as sparse as possible as scattered as
possible.
We don't have kind of we don't need to have valleys within the image.
We want to have like negative values and positives and so on.
We're going to be very difficult to do what we wanted.
We wanted to make the features pop up.
We want to simply any any value that's below zero we're just going to kill it.
OK and a very simple Forth it was going to set it to zero.
So all these numbers let's say that's 10 and several are going to pop up in a way and will become kind
of sparse or scattered across our image that's in a very in this intuition of applying it new activation
function.
You guys can apply different activation function which will call it sigmoid activation function OK the
sigmoid activation function look something like this.
If you guys here are between let's say these values we're going to set it to let's say point seven point
eight point nine and then it's kind of saturates afterwards.
OK.
And that's not desired when we design our neural network in general especially the conclusion here and
that was why because we wanted to preserve our slope.
We want to preserve our gradient.
We want to keep the gradient moving for we don't want to make it saturate or make it less stable in
a way we want to avoid this.
That's why we stay away from sigmoid functions especially during where we were after performing the
feature detection process.
OK we're going to play sigmoid function at the end of the network.
OK let's say do like 0 or 1 we apply soft max function at the end of the network.
But inside we generally stick with the two functions right.
That's kind of a quick crash you know kind of course on the loop and the next step is we wanted to understand
what any of it meant by Max pooling and feature and flattening.
The first step is what we call the next again.
The concept is very simple very easy.
What we want to do if we want to take let's say four by four image OK and boil it down to two by two.
OK.
While preserving the same features.
That's the whole objective of doing the pooling in general.
But what we're going to do here is apply that Max pooling which is a certain category of pooling that
is average pooling there's Max putting There's men pulling there's whatever pooling we can perform.
So these guys can see here what we're going to do that we're going to use it to buy to filter with a
stride of two.
When I say try that means the movement of two.
OK.
So what are we going to do if we simply we're going to apply the tube to filter in here and select the
maximum value as simple as that.
So the maximum value is six which is going to put six here.
Let's this too.
So we're going to move to the right by two that would generate eight rate moving forward that would
generate 9 moving forward that would generate 4 and so on so forth and that's how we perform the process
of kind of max pulling.
So what's the essence what did we do here.
First of all we do what we call it we reduced the feature map dimensionality which is very critical.
We moved from a four by four matrix to let's say we cut in half we were what we want to bite into a
two by two Matrix.
Second critical critical element is we actually preserve the feature.
OK we actually ignored.
Let's say these one in one it we kept only the most prominent values or prominent features which is
six here in this case.
We kept the AIDS we kept the 9 and so on.
So we again we preserved the feature however we presented in a much kind of condensed four.
OK.
So this is this is the first benefit.
The second benefit of Max pooling which is extremely important is that it helps the model to generalize
in a way.
What do you mean.
So let's take a look at kind of let's say the images of bags here.
OK.
So what we want.
We want our trained deep neural network to actually look at this bag and let's say OK this is an actual
class bag.
OK.
At the same time if you wanted to look let's say at the bag that's a little bit tilted to the right
a little bit tilted to the left or maybe looking upwards or looking whatever.
OK.
And that's how humans are very strong and very powerful in performing it can actually look at all these
bags and tell.
OK.
All of them are bags.
How can we do this.
OK.
We do this by a part of it just by using the pooling or the max pooling.
Why.
Because if that is the location of the peaks that shifted to the right or shifted to the left or right
by one pixel up or down.
Actually the values were going to be pretty much the same way because you you're applying a filter and
you're getting the maximum value anyways.
OK.
So the location of the pixels can actually shift or be tilted a little bit no problem than that.
Actually our network will be able to classify it as well accurately.
Okay.
So again maximum Max pooling works by retaining the maximum feature responds with gate with any given
sample size and a specific feature.
Okay.
And then afterwards that's pretty much what we need.
The next step is we will apply Roekel flattening which is simply what we wanted to do from the beginning
to actually take the image take the 28 by 28 image and actually make it kind of you know like one array
and feed it to our network our fully connected artificial neural network to tell us what class it is.
Thats pretty much what we want at the beginning.
Unfortunately we had to go through all this to extract feature maps to do pooling or Max pooling to
apply really functions and to do flattening afterwards.
OK.
Again all this stuff.
Okay it looks really complex but trust me when I'm going to go to the code it's actually really simple
bunch of lines we can to build an artificial neural network with a convolution you know network which
is kind of you know really exciting we can actually build them human Pyra brain in 10 minutes.
You know teach it to do whatever whatever you want to classify these images in in bunch of seconds.
OK.
All right.
So let's take a look at a quick illustration.
OK.
It's actually performed by Reierson Ryerson University in Canada.
So here.
I actually asked you OK let's draw kind of a number and the network we're going to tell you what number
that is.
So that's for example toilet's say five.
So if you try five you'll see it and that's OK.
So here it's telling you that OK this is number five.
OK.
And these are the different layers.
The first layer as you can see here this is our input layer.
OK.
Again that's the first step which kind of convolution.
These are kind of a feature maps.
OK.
And then the next step we can apply what we call the here we call it the downsampling player.
Again you can show it can enable it hide it or show it here you can hide it or show it.
So that means this layer that convolutional layer this layer is we'll call it downsampling layer downsampling
layer.
It's just a different name of pooling.
OK.
So that's the idea of pooling.
Okay.
And then afterwards we have another convolutional layer and then afterwards we did all the flattening
right.
And then afterwards we connect connected to the output.
That's what basically specifies our classes which is either 0 2 9 that's pretty much what we wanted
to implement but in in a different form that we're not there just in the right numbers we actually get
to show images of different fashion items.
OK.
It's actually pretty interesting.
I want you guys to go through it here.
Obviously you know when we're out we wrote five.
It was the first guess actually five and the second guess is seven.
OK.
You can go head and maybe let's say try a different number try let's say 1.
It will tell you OK the first guess is 1 and that's pretty much how the convolution works.
It's a different layers.
OK applies to all planes feature maps first.
OK.
And then after the feature maps it applies the max pulling for downsampling.
And then we do the flattening layers and then we feed it in a fully connected network to tell us what's
the hour classification is.
All right it's pretty interesting illustration.
I hope you guys enjoyed it.
All right let's go back to our slides.
All right.
That's pretty much all what I have for our for the section.
I hope we get into that section and see you in the next section.